=head1 NAME

kleingebaeck - kleinanzeigen.de backup tool

=head1 SYNOPSYS
    
    Usage: kleingebaeck [-dvVhmoc] [<ad-listing-url>,...]
    Options:
    -u --user    <uid>      Backup ads from user with uid <uid>.
    -d --debug              Enable debug output.
    -v --verbose            Enable verbose output.
    -o --outdir  <dir>      Set output dir (default: current directory)
    -l --limit   <num>      Limit the ads to download to <num>, default: load all.
    -c --config  <file>     Use config file <file> (default: ~/.kleingebaeck).
       --ignoreerrors       Ignore HTTP errors, may lead to incomplete ad backup.
    -f --force              Overwrite images and ads even if the already exist.
    -m --manual             Show manual.
    -h --help               Show usage.
    -V --version            Show program version.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tool can be used to backup ads on the german ad page L<https://kleinanzeigen.de>.

It downloads all (or  only the specified ones) ads of  one user into a
directory, each ad into its own subdirectory. The backup will contain
a textfile B<Adlisting.txt> which contains the ad contents such as
title, body, price etc. All images will be downloaded as well.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

You   can  create   a  config   file  to   save  typing.   By  default
C<~/.kleingebaeck> is being used but you can specify one with C<-c> as
well.   We    use   TOML   as   our    configuration   language.   See
L<https://toml.io/en/>.

Format is pretty simple:

    user = 1010101
    loglevel = verbose
    outdir = "test"
    useragent = "Mozilla/5.0"
    template = """
    Title: {{.Title}}
    Price: {{.Price}}
    Id: {{.ID}}
    Category: {{.Category}}
    Condition: {{.Condition}}
    Type: {{.Type}}
    Color: {{.Color}}
    Created: {{.Created}}

    {{.Text}}
    """

Be careful  if you want  to change the  template.  The variable  is a
multiline string surrounded  by three double quotes. You  can left out
certain   fields  and   use  any   formatting  you   like.  Refer   to
L<https://pkg.go.dev/text/template>  for   details  how  to   write  a
template. Also read the TEMPLATES section below.

If you're on  windows and want to customize the  output directory, put
it into single  quotes to avoid the backslashes  interpreted as escape
chars like this:

    outdir = 'C:\Data\Ads'

=head1 TEMPLATES

Various parts  of the configuration  can be modified  using templates:
the output directory, the ad directory and the ad listing itself.

=head2 OUTPUT DIR TEMPLATE

The config varialbe C<outdir> or the command line parameter C<-o> take a
template which may contain:

=over

=item C<{{.Year}}>

=item C<{{.Month}}>

=item C<{{.Day}}>

=back

That way you can create a new output directory for every backup
run. For example:

    outdir = "/home/backups/ads-{{.Year}}-{{.Month}}-{{.Day}}"

Or using the command line flag:

    -o "/home/backups/ads-{{.Year}}-{{.Month}}-{{.Day}}"

The default value is C<.> - the current directory.

=head2 AD DIRECTORY TEMPLATE

The ad directory name can be modified using the following ad values:

=over

=item {{.Price}}

=item {{.ID}}

=item {{.Category}}

=item {{.Condition}}

=item {{.Created}}

=item {{.Slug}}

=item {{.Text}}

=back

It can only be configured in the config file. By default only
C<{{.Slug}}> is being used, this is the title of the ad in url format.

=head2 AD TEMPLATE

The ad listing itself can be modified as well, using the same
variables as the ad name template above.

This is the default template:

    Title: {{.Title}}
    Price: {{.Price}}
    Id: {{.ID}}
    Category: {{.Category}}
    Condition: {{.Condition}}
    Type: {{.Type}}
    Created: {{.Created}}
    Expire: {{.Expire}}
    
    {{.Text}}

The config parameter to modify is C<template>. See example.conf in the
source repository. Please take care, since this is a multiline
string. This is how it shall look if you modify it:

    template="""
    Title: {{.Title}}
    
    {{.Text}}
    """

That is, the content between the two C<"""> chars is the template.

=head1 SETUP

To setup the tool, you need to lookup your userid on
kleinanzeigen.de. Go to your ad overview page while NOT being logged
in:

    https://www.kleinanzeigen.de/s-bestandsliste.html?userId=XXXXXX

The B<XXXXX> part is your userid.

Put it into the configfile as outlined above. Also specify an output
directory. Then just execute C<kleingebaeck>.

You can use the B<-v> option to  get verbose output or B<-d> to enable
debugging.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

The following environment variables  are considered:

    KLEINGEBAECK_USER
    KLEINGEBAECK_DEBUG
    KLEINGEBAECK_VERBOSE
    KLEINGEBAECK_OUTDIR
    KLEINGEBAECK_LIMIT
    KLEINGEBAECK_CONFIG
    KLEINGEBAECK_IGNOREERRORS

Please  note,  that  they  take   precedence  over  config  file,  but
commandline flags take precedence over env!



=head1 BUGS

In order to report a bug, unexpected behavior, feature requests
or to submit a patch, please open an issue on github:
L<https://github.com/TLINDEN/kleingebaeck/issues>.

Please repeat the failing command with debugging enabled C<-d> and
include the output in the issue.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

The C<kleingebaeck> doesn't currently check if it has downloaded a
file already, so it downloads everything again every time you execute
it. Be aware of it. This will change in the future.

Also there's currently no parallelization implemented. This will
change in the future.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2023-2024 Thomas von Dein

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 Author

T.v.Dein <tom AT vondein DOT org>



=cut
